bdk-cli basics 00 (#117)
bitcoindevkit/bitcoindevkit.org: docs/tutorials/bdk_cli_basics_00.md

---
title: "Command Line Introduction to Bitcoin Wallet Development using bdk-cli"
description: "Intro to bdk-cli and wallet dev"
authors:
    - waterst0ne Pedro Felix
date: "2022-09-22"
tags: ["bdk-cli", "basics","novice"]
permalink: "/tutorial/bdk_cli_basics_00"
---

## 

## Tutorial Goals

> - My goal for this tutorial is to introduce you to [bdk-cli](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk-cli), a powerful command-line program used for Bitcoin wallet testing. You will be exposed to many of the basic techincal skills that go into creating and managing Bitcoin wallets. 

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
- The goal for this tutorial is to introduce you to [bdk-cli](https://github.com/bitcoindevkit/bdk-cli), a powerful command-line program used for Bitcoin wallet testing. Made using the more generic [BDK](https://docs.rs/bdk/latest/bdk/) wallet library.  You will be exposed to many of the basic technical skills that go into creating and managing Bitcoin wallets. 
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/UV4Vgsq.gif)

***
### 1e: Verify environment variable my_descriptor is active

:arrow_forward: `env | grep my_descriptor`

![](https://i.imgur.com/s7ZeRQN.gif)

***
## Step 2: Generate Receive-Address

:arrow_forward:  `bdk-cli wallet --wallet wallet_name --descriptor $my_descriptor get_new_address` 

![](https://i.imgur.com/P8PjTAo.gif)

:+1: The output below confirms the command was successful.

```
{
  "address": "tb1qrh4sq5va0unqtxyfv8al9lz3sna3988cj59uya"
}
```

***
## Step 3: Send testnet bitcoin to the newly created receive-address 

These Testnet faucets allow you to send funds to your newly created address.
[Bitcoin Testnet Faucet link:1](https://testnet-faucet.mempool.co)
[Bitcoin Testnet Faucet link:2](https://bitcoinfaucet.uo1.net)

***
## Step 4: Sync the wallet

:arrow_forward: ```bdk-cli wallet --wallet wallet_name  --descriptor $my_descriptor sync```

:+1: The output below confirms the command was successful.

```
{}
```

![](https://i.imgur.com/WFYBgVB.gif)

***
## Step 5: Check the balance

:arrow_forward: `bdk-cli wallet --wallet wallet_name  --descriptor $my_descriptor get_balance `

:::tip

> Note: The balance will only show after the transaction has been confirmed in a block at least once.

Reviewer: Now I am thinking if this is correct. We should also be able to see unconfirmed balances right? Maybe we can also show how the balance transformed from confirmed to unconfirmed??

:::

    
:+1: The output below confirms the command was successful:
```
{

>   "satoshi": 100000

Reviewer: With version 6, this balance structure updates.. And we now have a lot more details..

}

```

![](https://i.imgur.com/v8MAYB2.gif)

***
## Step 6: Create Transaction (PSBT)

:arrow_down: To create a PSBT (partially-signed-bitcoin-transaction) run  the command :arrow_down:

> :arrow_forward: `bdk-cli wallet --wallet wallet_name --descriptor $my_descriptor create_tx --to mkHS9ne12qx9pS9VojpwU5xtRd4T7X7ZUt:50000`

Reviewer: Hmm I think its better to work with old formats than to burn test coins.. I am just thinking if this could confuse readers.. But I guess they could learn something interesting too if they notice it looks weird..
